docs(collections): add documentation (#14820)
cosmos/cosmos-sdk: collections/docs/01-intro.md

> # Collections

Reviewer: This still needs to be colllapsed in one README.
What I mean is: 01-intro.md, 02-map.md, 03-keyset.md,... should be in one file: collections/README.md. Like we do for modules.

Author: should've been addressed, let me know!

Collections is a library meant to simplify the experience with respect to module state handling.

Cosmos-sdk modules handle their state using the `KVStore` interface. The problem with working with
KVStore is that it forces you to think of state as a bytes KV pairings when in reality the majority of

> state comes from concrete golang object (strings, ints, structs, etc.).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
state comes from complex concrete golang objects (strings, ints, structs, etc.).
```

> Collections allows you to work with state as if they were normal golang objects and removes the need 
> from your code to think of state as bytes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Collections allows you to work with state as if they were normal golang objects and removes the need 
for you to think of your state as raw bytes in your code.
```

	// FeeAllowanceQueueKeyPrefix is the set of the kvstore for fee allowance keys data
	// - 0x01<allowance_prefix_queue_key_bytes>: <empty value>
	FeeAllowanceQueueKeyPrefix = []byte{0x01}
)
```
becomes:
```go
var (
	// FeeAllowanceKeyPrefix is the set of the kvstore for fee allowance data
	// - 0x00<allowance_key_bytes>: allowance
	FeeAllowanceKeyPrefix = collections.NewPrefix(0)

	// FeeAllowanceQueueKeyPrefix is the set of the kvstore for fee allowance keys data
	// - 0x01<allowance_prefix_queue_key_bytes>: <empty value>
	FeeAllowanceQueueKeyPrefix = collections.NewPrefix(1)
)
```

#### Rules

``collections.NewPrefix`` accepts either `uint8`, `string` or `[]bytes` it's good practice to use an always increasing `uint8`for disk space efficiency.

A collection **MUST NOT** share the same prefix as another collection in the same module, and a collection prefix **MUST NEVER** start with the same prefix as another, examples:

```go
prefix1 := collections.NewPrefix("prefix")
prefix2 := collections.NewPrefix("prefix") // THIS IS BAD!
```

```go
prefix1 := collections.NewPrefix("a")
prefix2 := collections.NewPrefix("aa") // prefix2 starts with the same as prefix1: BAD!!!
```

> ### Humanised name

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Human-Readable Name
```

> The third parameter we pass to a collection is a string, which is a humanised name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The third parameter we pass to a collection is a string, which is a human-readable name.
```

> It needs to make the role of a collection understandable by clients who have no clue about

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is needed to make the role of a collection understandable by clients who have no clue about
```

what a module is storing in state.

#### Rules

Each collection in a module **MUST** have a unique humanised name.

> ## Key and Value codecs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Key and Value Codecs
```

A collection is generic over the type you can use as keys or values.

> Which makes collections dumb, but also means that hypothetically I can store everything

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Which makes collections dumb, but also means that hypothetically we can store everything
```

> that can be a go type into a collection. I am not bounded to any type of encoding (be it proto, json or whatever)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that can be a go type into a collection. We are not bounded to any type of encoding (be it proto, json or whatever)
```

So a collection needs to be given a way to understand how to convert your keys and values to bytes. 
This is achieved through ``KeyCodec`` and `ValueCodec`, which are arguments that you pass to your 
collections when you're instantiating them using the ```collections.NewMap/collections.NewItem/...``` 
instantiation functions.

> (NOTE: generally speaking you will never be required to implement your own ``Key/ValueCodec`` as 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: Generally speaking you will never be required to implement your own ``Key/ValueCodec`` as 
```

the SDK and collections libraries already come with default, safe and fast implementation of those.

> You might need to implement them only if you're migrating to collections and there are state layout incompatibilities.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You might need to implement them only if you're migrating to collections and there are state layout incompatibilities.
```

> Let's make an example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's explore an example:
```

````go
package collections

import (
	"cosmossdk.io/collections"
	storetypes "cosmossdk.io/store/types"
	sdk "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/types"
)

var IDsPrefix = collections.NewPrefix(0)

type Keeper struct {
	Schema    collections.Schema
	IDs   collections.Map[string, uint64]
}

func NewKeeper(storeKey *storetypes.KVStoreKey) Keeper {
	sb := collections.NewSchemaBuilder(sdk.OpenKVStore(storeKey))

	return Keeper{
		IDs: collections.NewMap(sb, IDsPrefix, "ids", collections.StringKey, collections.Uint64Value),
	}
}
````

We're now instantiating a map where the key is string and the value is uint64.
We already know the first three arguments of the ``NewMap`` function.

The fourth parameter is our `KeyCodec`, we know that the ``Map`` has `string` as key so we pass it a `KeyCodec` that handles strings as keys.

The fifth parameter is our `ValueCodec`, we know that the `Map` as a `uint64` as value so we pass it a `ValueCodec` that handles uint64.

Collections already comes with all the required implementations for golang primitive types.

> Let's make another example, this falls closer to what we build using cosmos SDK, let's say I want

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's make another example, this falls closer to what we build using cosmos SDK, let's say we want
```

to create a `collections.Map` that maps account addresses to their base account. So we want to map an `sdk.AccAddress` to an `auth.BaseAccount` (which is a proto):

```go
package collections

import (
	"cosmossdk.io/collections"
	storetypes "cosmossdk.io/store/types"
	"github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/codec"
	sdk "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/types"
	authtypes "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/x/auth/types"
)

var AccountsPrefix = collections.NewPrefix(0)

type Keeper struct {
	Schema    collections.Schema
	Accounts   collections.Map[sdk.AccAddress, authtypes.BaseAccount]
}

func NewKeeper(storeKey *storetypes.KVStoreKey, cdc codec.BinaryCodec) Keeper {
	sb := collections.NewSchemaBuilder(sdk.OpenKVStore(storeKey))
	return Keeper{
		Accounts: collections.NewMap(sb, AccountsPrefix, "accounts",
			sdk.AccAddressKey, codec.CollValue[authtypes.BaseAccount](cdc)),

> 	}

Reviewer 2: I wonder if it would make it easier for devs/clients if instead `collections.New*` took a struct literal, so you know what each param means.

e.g.

```go
collections.New(
  collections.Config{
    SchemaBuilder: db,
    Prefix: AccountsPrefix,
    // ...
  }
)
```

}
```

As we can see here since our `collections.Map` maps `sdk.AccAddress` to `authtypes.BaseAccount`,
we use the `sdk.AccAddressKey` which is the `KeyCodec` implementation for `AccAddress` and we use `codec.CollValue` to
encode our proto type `BaseAccount`.

> Generally speaking you will always find the respective key and value codecs for type in the go.mod path you're using

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Generally speaking you will always find the respective key and value codecs for types in the go.mod path you're using
```

> to import that type. If you wanna encode proto values refer to the codec ``codec.CollValue`` function which allows you

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to import that type. If you want to encode proto values refer to the codec `codec.CollValue` function which allows you
```
